# Building Software Test Platform
*   **Description**: This document explains the construction of a software test platform to build a IT security lab network. Additionly to explain about the, introduction, software test platform, reason for using virtualization, virtualization, types of virtualization, operating system installation, 'software and applications' and backuping.
   
*   **Introduction**: Since it is not possible to conduct tests on the production network, this explains how to build a software test platform on a virtualization computer in the IT security lab network, the different virtualization options used for that, the different operating system options used in this software test platform, and the different software and application options used in it.
*   The software test platform uses the Kali Linux operating system for testing and a mix of Linux and Windows operating systems for other operations. But, open source software is used for specific tasks on these operating systems.
   
*   **Software Test Platform**: The software test platform is a virtual network built on the IT Security Lab network. This software test platform will have a virtual network that provides an isolated environment from other networks and a virtual network that can communicate with the IT Security Lab network only when needed. That is, a software test platform is a combination of hypervisors that create virtual networks, the virtual networks within them, the virtual computers in these virtual networks, and the software programs in these virtual computers.
    *   **Reason for Using Virtualization**: The software test platform is being built virtually in the IT Security Lab network to minimize the need for hardware in the IT Security Lab network, maximize the use of existing hardware, and quickly resolve any problems or restore damaged components resulting from network tests and experiments.  In addition, conducting tests and experiments on production networks or physical networks can damage them and render important components unusable.
    
* **Virtualization**: Virtualization is the process of creating small computers in software form within a physical computer that emulate the hardware components of a physical computer. The virtualization server is the physical computer that performs the virtualization. Virtualization is used to run multiple operating systems inside a physical computer.
* Virtualization emulates the physical computer's microprocessor, RAM, hard disk, keyboard, mouse, network controller, audio controller, video controller, USB controller, and serial controller. However, the virtualization physical computer must have multiple microprocessor cores and speed, multiple memory channels, RAM, and hard disk capacity, and technology to enable virtualization.
* **Types of Virtualization**: This explains the different types of virtualization.
  * **Application Virtualization**: This is a method of building a software computer within a physical computer by emulating the physical components of a physical computer into the computer architecture required to run that application, in order to use software tools used to develop certain types of applications.
  * **Mainframe Virtualization**: This is a method of creating and providing small computers in the form of software by simulating the hardware components within physical computer and the hardware components shared from other physical computers to that physical computer. In this way, the hardware resources of this physical computer and the hardware resources shared to this physical computer can be shared with any other physical computer, access to these shared resources can be controlled, and the permissions of different user accounts to these shared resources can be controlled. This method is used in large organizations. By using this method in an IT security lab network, it is very easy to understand the workings of security devices, perform patch testing, and train for certification exams. For this, VMware Server, KVM Server, and Hyper-V Server are used.
    * **VMware Server**: This method is used to build large software test platforms. All network devices and computers in an IT security lab network, except for the border router and wireless security devices, can be built this way. Since this is a paid virtualization server operating system, it is not recommended for building software test platforms.
    * **KVM Server**: This method is used to build large software test platforms. All of its packages are available in Debian Linux. But, in some Linux distributions, these packages are only available with a subscription. All network devices and computers in the IT Security Lab network, except the border router and wireless security devices, can be built in this way. But, it is installed and configured on a large physical server computer used for virtualization.
    * Before installing this, the server computer on which it is to be installed must have a hard disk to run the base Linux operating system and another hard disk to create and run virtual computers. In addition, this server must have a partition shared from the NAS server to share the data on the IT Security Lab network with authorized persons in the organization.
    * To install a KVM server, a suitable Linux distribution is installed on the physical server for this purpose. Then, the KVM server packages are installed on that operating system. Then, the necessary configurations for the KVM server are configured. Then, the necessary virtual network is created in the KVM server's virtual machine manager and this virtual network is connected to the physical server's NIC. Then a software test platform is created on this virtual network, which consists of the necessary routers, firewalls, and computers.
    * **Hyper-V Server**: This method is used to build large software test platforms on the Windows Server operating system. All network devices and computers in the IT Security Lab network, except for the border router and wireless security devices, can be built in this way. However, Windows operating systems are not recommended as base operating systems in the IT Security Lab network.
  * **Parallel Virtualization**: It is a method of creating different partitions within a physical computer, installing different operating systems on each partition, and accessing and using only one operating system at a time. This method is not recommended for building IT security lab networks.
  * **Operating System Virtualization**: This is a method of creating small computers in software form by having virtualization software installed on the operating system inside a physical computer, simulating the hardware components inside that physical computer. This may seem similar to mainframe virtualization, but it does not possible virtualize as many components or impose as many restrictions as mainframe virtualization. In this, the operating system on the physical computer is considered the host, and the virtual computers created in virtualization software are considered guests. But, it is possible to share hard disks and storage devices available to this basic operating system and control user permissions to these shares. By using this method in an IT security lab network, it is much easier to understand the functions of security tools, perform patch testing, and train for certification exams.  For this, VMware Workstation, VirtualBox, and Hyper-V are used.
    * **VMware Workstation**: This method is used to build a software test platforms. All network devices and computers in an IT security lab network can be built this way, except for the border router and wireless security devices. The size of the software test platform that can be built using this depends on the number of cores in the microprocessor available on the physical computer being virtualized, the capacity of the RAM memory, and the capacity of the hard disk. Although it is also available in Linux operating systems, it is not suitable for the Linux architecture and has the probability to disrupt other programs and services in Linux.
    * **VirtualBox**: This method is used to build a software test platforms. All network devices and computers in an IT security lab network can be built this way, except for the border router and wireless security devices. The size of the software test platform that can be built using this depends on the number of cores in the microprocessor available on the physical computer being virtualized, the capacity of the RAM memory, and the capacity of the hard disk. It is available in Linux operating systems and is suitable for the Linux architecture. It works equally well on Linux operating systems and Windows operating systems. It is a lightweight program, making it well suited to the Linux architecture. How to it installed in Linux, is available from its official website https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Linux_Downloads. But before that, all this packages must be installed in the Linux operating system using the command sudo apt install -y build-essential dkms linux-headers-$(uname -r) curl wget gnupg. Only then will VirtualBox work smoothly on Linux. But, the EXE file for installation on Windows is available from its official website https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads.
    * Before installing it, the physical computer to be installed must have one hard disk to run the base Linux operating system, another hard disk to create and run virtual computers, and another hard disk to share data on the software test platform. In order to share data in the software test platform in this way, this VirtualBox extension package must be installed in that program. Then the command sudo usermod –aG vboxusers $USER is executed. This extension package can be obtained from the VirtualBox Extension Pack on the official VirtualBox website at https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads.
    * **Hyper-V**: This method is used to build software test platforms on the Windows operating system. All network devices and computers in the IT Security Lab network, except for the border router and wireless security devices, can be built in this way. However, Windows operating systems are not recommended as base operating systems in the IT Security Lab network. 
* **Operating System Installation**: It explains the different types of operating systems that are installed on virtual computers in the software test platform on the IT Security Lab network and how to install them.
  * **Microsoft Windows**: Microsoft Windows, with its graphical interface, is the most widely used operating system in the world. Therefore, they must be included in the software test platform in the IT security lab network. Windows has separate operating systems for client needs and server needs.
  * Since Windows operating systems are proprietary operating systems, they can only be obtained by paying for them. But, cracked versions of Windows operating systems are also available on the Internet, but they are not secure. But, if that operating system is used for a specific purpose on the software test platform of the IT Security Lab Network, it is best to use the latest version of the Windows operating system that suits that specific purpose. But, for experiments, it is best to use older versions of the Windows client operating system or server operating system that have security vulnerabilities.
    * **Installation**: The amount of hardware components required for different versions of Windows operating systems will be different. Therefore, before installing the Windows operating system on the software test platform in the IT Security Lab network, it is necessary to find out the capacity of the hardware components required for that specific version of Windows operating system from Microsoft's official website and ensure that the physical computer on which the software test platform is built has that hardware capacity and the hardware capacity to run the base operating system of the software test platform. Then the ISO file of the specific version of Windows operating system is downloaded from the official website of Microsoft.
    * In the hypervisor of the physical computer that makes up the software test platform creates a virtual computer with slightly more capacity than the hardware capacity required to run the specific version of the operating system to be installed. It then ensures that all the virtual configurations of this virtual computer are correct.
    * The installation process begins by selecting the ISO file of the specified Windows operating system as the installation media for the virtual computer on which the specified operating system is to be installed on the software test platform and starting the virtual computer. Then, the installation process continues by selecting the language, time and currency format, and keyboard layout for this virtual computer and creating and formatting the partition required to install this operating system on this virtual computer. During this installation process, this operating system is downloaded from the ISO file to the virtual hard disk where the Windows operating system is to be installed and then installed.
    * After the installation process of the specific version of the Windows operating system on the software test platform, the virtual computer on which that operating system is installed is restarted. Then, the hostname, workgroup, domain name, and user accounts of the virtual computer that were previously planned are configured. Then, the network configurations and other configurations of this computer are configured and this virtual computer is restarted and made available for login.
  * **Linux**: Linux operating systems are the operating systems that can be used for all IT activities except audiovisual activities and provide good performance in such activities. Therefore, they should be included in the software test platform in the IT security lab network. They are cost-effective, well-designed, provide good performance and are freely available. They are available in different distributions. In addition, there are distributions for special purposes.
  * Linux operating systems are open source, meaning they can be freely distributed, the source code can be modified as desired, and programs can be developed on them very easily. Therefore, security tools and programs for other important IT needs are first available in Linux distributions. But, while some Linux distributions are available as free and open source, some of their packages are proprietary it can only be installed with a paid subscription. Therefore, it is best to keep such Linux distributions away from software test platforms.
  * If the operating system is used for a specific purpose in the IT Security Lab Network's software test platform, Linux distributions developed for that specific purpose should be made available and used. Examples include IPFire for firewalls and Kali Linux for Open Media Vault security operations for NAS. But, for experimenting purposes, there are Linux distributions available that are developed specifically for experimenting security vulnerabilities. Those should be used. But, for security testing, Linux distributions developed for security testing, such as Kali Linux, should be used. It is safest to use Linux distributions from the official websites of the respective distributions.
    * **Installation**: The amount of hardware components required for different distributions of Linux operating systems will be different. Therefore, before installing the any distributions of Linux operating system on the software test platform in the IT Security Lab network, it is necessary to find out the capacity of the hardware components required for that specific distribution of Linux operating system from that distribution's official website and ensure that the physical computer on which the software test platform is built has that hardware capacity and the hardware capacity to run the base operating system of the software test platform. Then the ISO file of the specific distribution of Linux operating system is downloaded from the official website of that specific distribution.
    * In the hypervisor of the physical computer that makes up the software test platform creates a virtual computer with slightly more capacity than the hardware capacity required to run the specific version of the operating system to be installed. It then ensures that all the virtual configurations of this virtual computer are correct.
    * The installation process begins by selecting the ISO file of the specified Windows operating system as the installation media for the virtual computer on which the specified operating system is to be installed on the software test platform and starting the virtual computer. Then, select the option to install this operating system as GUI or CLI and continue the installation process. CLI is usually used for server purposes to reduce the hardware requirements required by the operating system.
    * The installation process begins by selecting the ISO file of the specified Windows operating system as the installation media for the virtual computer on which the specified operating system is to be installed on the software test platform and starting the virtual computer. Then, select the option to install this operating system as GUI or CLI and continue the installation process. CLI is usually used for server purposes to reduce the hardware requirements required by the operating system. Then, select the language for this virtual machine and continue the installation process. Then, select the country in which this virtual computer will reside and continue the installation process. Then, select the keyboard layout for this virtual computer and continue the installation process. Then, the installation process continues by entering the hostname and domain name of this virtual computer as planned. Then, enter the user accounts and their passwords of this virtual computer as planned and continue the installation process. Then, the installation process continues by creating and formatting the swap partition and EXT4 partition required to install this operating system on this virtual computer, selecting this EXT4 partition as the primary partition. And then selecting the graphical interface of the operating system to be installed on this virtual computer and the packages to be installed and continue the installation process.
    * During this installation process, this operating system is downloaded from the ISO file to the virtual hard disk where the operating system is to be installed and then installed. After the installation process is complete, select the virtual hard disk of that virtual computer to configure GRUB on the same hard disk where the operating system is installed. After the installation process is complete, restart the virtual computer and the login page of that virtual computer will be available.
    * After the installation process is complete, the installs the Linux guest addition file from the hypervisor's guest addition to enable data transfer between the base operating system and the virtual computers on the software test platform. But before that, execute the command sudo apt install build-essential dkms linux-headers-$(uname -r) to install the libraries required for this guest addition.
    * **Navigating Linux**: It explains the basic structure of Linux operating systems and how they differ from Windows operating systems.
      * **Case Sensitive**: Linux operating systems are case sensitive. inux operating system can recognize both uppercase and lowercase letters. But, Windows operating systems do not. Therefore, comands give in Linux operating systems must be given in a case-sensitive manner.
      * **Ownership Permissions**: In Linux operating system, files and directories are assigned ownership permissions that determines who can read, write, and execute them. But It's haven't in windows. 
      * **Regular Users Limitations**: In Linux operating system, regular users do not have the same privileges as the root user. Therefore, regular users cannot perform administrative tasks such as installing software or modifying system files. But the admin user It doing in windows.
      * **File System**: Linux operating systems use the file systems is ext4, FAT32, NTFS, etc. But Windows operating systems use the file systems is NTFS, FAT32, etc.
      * **Path Separator**: Linux operating systems use the forward slash (/) as the path separator. But Windows operating systems use the backslash (\) as the path separator. 
      * **Multiple Users**: Linux operating systems support multiple users to log in at the same time. But Windows operating systems log in one user at a time. 
      * **Partitions**: Linux operating systems doesn't use drive letters (C:, D:, etc.) to identify partitions. Instead, it uses a hierarchical file system where all partitions are mounted as directories under the root directory (/). But windows operating systems use drive letters (C:, D:, etc.) to identify partitions. 
      * **Linux File System Content**: Linux operating systems has the hierarchical file system where all partitions are mounted as directories under the root directory (/). Each directory within the root directory stores each type of files and directories required to run this Linux operating system, and this is explained here.
        * **root(/)**:  Linux operating systems has the root directory (/), which is the top-level directory in the file system. It is the parent directory of all other directories in the file system. 
        * **bin(/bin)**:  Linux operating systems has the bin directory (/bin), which is the directory that contains the binary files required to run the operating system. This means that command files that normal users are allowed to execute in the operating system are stored in this directory.
        * **sbin(/sbin)**:  Linux operating systems has the sbin directory (/sbin), which is the directory that contains the binary files required to run the operating system. This means that command files that root users are allowed to execute in the operating system are stored in this directory. 
        * **etc(/etc)**:  Linux operating systems has the etc directory (/etc), which is the directory that contains the configuration files required to run the operating system. This means that configuration files that are used to configure the operating system and services are stored in this directory.
        * **home(/home)**:  Linux operating systems has the home directory (/home), which is the directory that contains the home directory of all users excluding the root user. This means that home directory of users are stored in this directory.
        * **usr(/usr)**:  Linux operating systems has the usr directory (/usr), which is the directory that contains the binary files, library files, configuration files, kernal souce files, kernal header files and programs files required to run the operating system. This means that command files that normal users and root user are allowed to execute in the operating system are stored in this directory. Every commands executed from the terminal is executed from this directory. So if you need to run own command that command file is stored in this directory.
        * **var(/var)**:  Linux operating systems has the var directory (/var), which is the directory that contains the variable files required to run the operating system. This means that variable files that are used to store variable data are stored in this directory. Log files and like as a httpd, mysql, etc.. services data files are stored in this directory.
        * **run(/run)**:  Linux operating systems has the run directory (/run), which is the directory that contains the runtime files required to run the operating system. This means that runtime files that are used to store runtime data are stored in this directory. This directory is used to store runtime data that are used to run the operating system. The directory stores information about running processes, running daemons and logged user accounts from one boot to another boot.
        * **tmp(/tmp)**:  Linux operating systems has the tmp directory (/tmp), which is the directory that contains the temporary files required to run the operating system. This means that temporary files that are used to store temporary data are stored in this directory. This directory cleaned up after each boot.
        * **lib(/lib)**:  Linux operating systems has the lib directory (/lib), which is the directory that contains the library files required to run the operating system. This means that library files that are used to store library data are stored in this directory.
        * **lib64(/lib64)**:  Linux operating systems has the lib64 directory (/lib64), which is the directory that contains the library files 64-bit required to run the operating system. This means that library files that are used to store library data are stored in this directory.
        * **mnt(/mnt)**:  Linux operating systems has the mnt directory (/mnt), which is the directory that contains the mount points required to run the operating system. This means that mount points that are used to store mount data are stored in this directory.
        * **media(/media)**:  Linux operating systems has the media directory (/media), which is the directory that contains the external storage mount points required to run the operating system. This means that external storage mount points that are used to store data are stored in this directory.
        * **proc(/proc)**:  Linux operating systems has the proc directory (/proc), which is the directory that contains the process files and kernel files required to run the operating system. This means that process files and kernel files that are used to store process data and kernel data are stored in this directory.
        * **sys(/sys)**:  Linux operating systems has the sys directory (/sys), which is the directory that contains the system files required to run the operating system. This means that hardware files, hardware drivers, kernel files, kernel modules, that are used to store hardware data are stored in this directory.
        * **boot(/boot)**:  Linux operating systems has the boot directory (/boot), which is the directory that contains the boot files required to run the operating system. This means that boot loader files, boot configuration files, that are used to store boot data are stored in this directory.
        * **opt(/opt)**:  Linux operating systems has the opt directory (/opt), which is the directory that contains the optional files required to run the operating system. This means that optional files that are used to store optional data are stored in this directory. external programs and libraries are stored in this directory. Normaly cloned programs are stored in this directory.
        * **root(/root)**:  Linux operating systems has the root directory (/root), which is the directory that is the home directory of the root user. This means that directories and files of home directory of the root user is stored in this directory.
        * **dev(/dev)**:  Linux operating systems has the dev directory (/dev), which is the directory that contains the device files required to run the operating system. This means that device files that are used to store device data are stored in this directory.
        * **srv(/srv)**:  Linux operating systems has the srv directory (/srv), which is the directory that contains the server files required to run the operating system. This means that server files that are used to store server data are stored in this directory. But now some server files are stored in /var/www/html directory.
        * **lost+found(/lost+found)**:  Linux operating systems has the lost+found directory (/lost+found), which is the directory that is used to store lost files that are used to store lost data.
      * **Setup the Permissions**: Linux operating systems has permissions that are used to control access to the directories and files. Directories and files read, write and execute permissions are can setup using chmod command.
      * **Basics of Linux Operating System**: The basics of Linux operating systems are explained here.
        * **Terminal Emulator**: A terminal emulator is a utility program used to run commands on GUI Linux operating systems. This means that terminal emulator is used to run commands and to interact with the operating system. GUI Linux operating systems can't doing the important tasks and activities without terminal emulator. When you open a terminal emulator on a Linux operating system, the terminal emulator window is displays the user account@hostname:/workingdirectory$. But, if you log in to the root user account in the terminal emulator, the terminal emulator window will show root account@hostname:/workingdirectory#. But, you can also work in different terminal windows and tabs by logging into different user accounts.
        * **Shell**: A shell is a interface of the Linux operating system. This means that shell is used to run commands and to interact with the operating system. GUI Linux operating systems can't doing the important tasks and activities without shell. Different types of shell are available in Linux operating systems. Some of the shell types are bash, zsh, fish, etc. Each shell has its own features and capabilities. 
        * **Command Line Interface (CLI)**: A command line interface (CLI) is a interface of the Linux operating system. CLI interfaced Linux operating system can execute the commands for doing the tasks and activities only. Normally CLI interfaced Linux operating systems is used for server needs. Any Linux operating system can installation in CLI interface and GUI interfaced.
  * **Free BSD Operating System**: The software test platform's some virtual computers are running on Free BSD operating system. some firewalls are running on Free BSD operating system. Free BSD operating system is a open source operating system.
    * **Insstallation**: The Free BSD operating system is installed on the virtual computers using the ISO image file. The ISO image file is downloaded from the official website of the Free BSD operating system. 
    * Many Freebsd operating system hardware requirements are different. So find the specific hardware requirements of the specific Free BSD operating system before installing it. Then, verify the hardware requirements of the virtual computer before installing the Free BSD operating system.
    * The installation process begins by selecting the downloaded FreeBSD operating system ISO file as the installation media for the virtual computer on the Software Test Platform where the FreeBSD operating system is to be installed, and starting that virtual computer.
    * The installation process then prompts the user to select the installation type, which can be either a minimal installation or a full installation. The minimal installation option installs only the basic components of the operating system, while the full installation option installs all the available components.
    * The installation process configure the hostname of the virtual computer that was previously set, and then select the components to be installed. The installation process then continues by creating the partitions on which to install the operating system. Then configures the necessary network configurations. Then configures the necessary location configurations and date and time configurations. The necessary services are then selected and provided for installation. Then after their installation, the necessary predefined user accounts are configured and provided. Then after rebooting and the installation process is completed, the necessary configurations are configured in the CLI interface provided and other configurations are done by accessing its web configuration page.
* **Software and Applications**: The df